---
title: 2nd Way - Feedback
authors: 
  - Ed Earle
reviewed: 
reviewer:
next-review: 2023-06-01
---

## Second Way :Shortening and Amplifying Feedback Loops

Equipped with a good understanding of flow and a desire to improve it, we need to ensure we have feedback.

!!! note "Feedback and _Feedback_"

    Feedback may refer to the practice of providing an individual with your opinion of their performance, either after relating to a specific action they have taken or their day to day duties. 

    Feedback in the context of the _Second Way_ refers more broadly to any information going upstream (right to left). This includes the  feedback described above, automated processes (e.g. integration test, build errors), or manual workflow information. 

Feedback loops are a critical part of improvement in iterative delivery environments. Each time a process or action is executed, there is an opportunity to provide information back "upstream", so that the next iteration can adapt.

Shortening feedback loops means reducing the time it takes for feedback to be given.

Amplifying feedback loops means ensuring that we pay enough attention to the information that is being created by the feedback loop.

## Feedback loop examples

1. A team following Scrum delivery practices have a 4 week sprint. They start the sprint with a set of deliverables and set to work. 4 weeks later they present their output to stakeholders. What could be done to shorten this loop?

1. A software engineer is working on a task as part of a deliverable which will create various modules of code and new functionality. Once he has completed the work he passes it on to a tester who tests that the new functionality, and existing functionality works. The tester completes the testing then provides a list of defects back to the developer. What could be done to shorten this loop? How many loops could be created here?

1. A junior software engineer is working on a task. They identify that the acceptance criteria for the backlog item is ambiguous and that the test plan is has not accounted for this. The senior test engineer that created the plan reviews it and determines that the plan and acceptance criteria are fine. How might this feedback be amplified?
